---
---
Redovisning kmom01
=========================


So, the first KMOM in `oophp` is done! 

It is not the first time I am working with classes and OO programming. I did a course in `Java` and tried an OO-approach with `javascript`. Also, I am familiar to working with objects 
as part of coding in `javascript`. So the concepts introduced in this KMOM were not totally new to me. 
The syntax was new though, but the structures were still "standard". So, all together, it was 
a relatively smooth experience getting started with OO PHP. I needed to refresh some 
basic concepts related to `php` (feels like *"forever"* since the `htmlphp` course...), and the course guides were perfect for that. I just *"flipped"* through the "Basics and structure" chapter in the PHP Guide, and was ready to take on the challenges in KMOM01.


The *Guess number* task was a great way to get reacquainted with coding in PHP. I followed the videos and implemented first a simple `GET` form, then changed it so it would use `POST` instead. After that I implemented the `Guess` class and created a new program that was working with the class and its methods. I have also added an intermediate page `post-process.php` where the form data and request was processed before rendering the results for user (technically, redirecting back to the main page). This was done to prevent double-posting the form on page refresh. 

The *fun* begun when I started using the `$_SESSION` object for storing/passing the information. I chose to store the whole instance of `Guess` class there, as well as the information about the request itself (e.g., whether it was `doGuess` or `doCheat`) and the result of `makeGuess` method. To be able to *"share"* the session between the pages, I decided to handle it in one place - `config` file. And there the problems started. When I moved my session invocation code to `config`, the session never got created. I think I spend several hours trying to figure out why my `config` file was not working, or rather, working only partially. After long time of debugging I realized ... that I was editing the wrong `config` file, from a different directory. I mean... HELLO. <i class="fa fa-flushed"></i>

There were no issues uploading the code to `GitHub`. All necessary commands were listed on the assignment page. Plus, we already did all that in the `design` course. Also, updating the `me-page` was quite straight-forward and basically a simplified repetition of what we've done during the `design` course. 

My main TIL for this KMOM is: don't forget to power up your brain before coding. Things take much longer when the brain is in *stand-by* mode <i class="fa fa-grimace"></i>.
