---
---
Redovisning kmom02
=========================


UML - the Unified Modeling Language - is used to create a graphical/visual representation of, among others, application entities (especially when it comes to object-oriented programming) and the process flow within an application or a use case. These charts allow to grasp the complexity and model the application's architecture before the implementation, and/or to document the existing application and its structure. I believe they are very important during the inception and maintenance phases of software development. They help to create a robust base/architecture for a new application, and help the developers to get a holistic and in-depth overview over an existing software.

I think that tools like *phpDocumentor* are most helpful when creating a documentation for some API. It is very convenient to document your code as you write it and then, basically, with one command create a stand-alone documentation for the whole code base. Then you can share it with the users of your API and they will get the list of all the routes and available functionality. Such tools could be also useful for other types of applications, but might need to be completed with class diagrams and flow charts to give a comprehensive understanding of how the application is built, how to use or maintain it. 

I really appreciate the overall functionality of `make` file. I believe that whatever can be automated - should be. And `make` is just the tool for that. While working with this KMOM I had to change multiple times a version of some tools used in the setup due to incompatibility with `php7.4`, and it was really easy to do it using `make` (just change the version in the `make` file and run the `install` command). Same goes to any repetitive task, like `test`, `theme`, `uninstall` and so on.


Moving the *Guess Game* to the framework was quite easy. My original code was compartmentalised well enough, so I didn't have to make a lot of changes, and the implementation of routes for the game was really straight on. I only needed to swap the use of some variables to getting the information from session. I could also have used more the `data` object that is sent with `request` and `response`, but there was no real need for that, since everything was already stored in `$_SESSION`. 


If I compare the implementation of *Guess Game* within the framework and as a stand-alone, then the latter seams faster/smaller. But the *Guess Game* is a tiny application, and still it could be implemented in several different ways. Working within a framework forces a developer to follow a specific structure, making the code more *standardised* and providing some extra built-in features, that otherwise would have to be implemented from scratch. 


I think that the biggest hassle I had with this KMOM was fixing the tools incompatibilities. I have even regretted several times upgrading to `php7.4`. After some manipulations with `make` file, I no longer got errors when generating documentation or running tests, but some features in the latest version of `phpDocumentor` are faulty, e.g. there is no `svg` produced for the class diagram, and the explicit declaration to use a specific theme in the `config` file is ignored. Also I had to update the `config` for *mess detection*, since it was complaining A LOT about the `twig` module in generated documentation. So, the *dependency nightmare* is not a dream at all, quiet the opposite actually - the everyday reality <i class="fa fa-meh"></i>.
